MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
1
PROJECT BUILD MANUAL
My Web App V2
Full-Stack Work Tracker
Complete Build, Architecture, Testing & Learning Documentation - Stages
1-5
From the first browser page to a persistent, authenticated application with Admin management, a personal
User workspace, and Stage 5 regression coverage.
Prepared 30 September 2026. Repository checkpoint: main / 8dea970.
This manual combines a source-backed reconstruction of the early build with the project's detailed setup,
API, security, and verification records. It serves as a study guide, a rebuild reference, and evidence of the
completed application scope.
Stage 6 is a future step. It is not documented as completed.
Backend tests*
Frontend tests*
Live API checks*
56 passing
20 passing
89 requests passed
*Historical Stage 5 results recorded in docs/stage-5-testing.md; these counts are not a new live certification.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
2
Reading guide & evidence
How to use this manual
Read chapters 1-4 for the architecture and startup sequence. Chapters 5-11 explain the staged build.
Chapters 12-15 connect Git history, testing, defects, and verification. Chapters 16-18 provide
troubleshooting, the Stage 6 boundary, and a practical API reference.
The stage headings follow the requested learning sequence. Actual commits interleave the work: the
backend and PostgreSQL foundations landed on September 11, before the larger frontend implementation
on September 14. Stage numbers are a learning map, not a claim that commits followed an uninterrupted
numerical order.
What the evidence can establish
The current README, six project guides, database schema, selected implementation files, package
manifests, and Git history are the primary sources. Early work is reconstructed from commits, not a
complete transcript of earlier conversations. Unrecorded commands, decisions, or test sessions are not
invented.
The Stage 4.6A, Stage 4.6B, and Stage 5 verification sections below retain historical results. Their
references to work being uncommitted describe the time of those checks. Current Git history supersedes
those status notes: Admin management is 1295fd4, User experience is 2198120, and stabilization is
8dea970 on main.
This documentation task reads source and history and validates the generated PDF. It does not rerun the
89-request live verifier, repeat browser testing, re-audit dependencies, or modify production/application
data. Recorded zero-vulnerability results describe the earlier audit, not a permanent security guarantee.
Private environment files and historical secret values are excluded. Examples use placeholders or fictional
accounts. The historical credential issue mentioned by the Stage 5 record is not reproduced or remediated
by this document.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
3
Contents
1
Full-Stack Work Tracker
2
Reading guide & evidence
4
1. Project overview
5
2. Technology stack & architecture
6
3. Project structure & data model
7
4. Setup & reproducible local startup
9
5. Stage 1 - Frontend foundations
10
6. Stage 2 - Backend & REST API
11
7. Stage 3 - PostgreSQL integration
12
8. Stage 4 - Full-stack integration
13
9. Stage 4.5 - Authentication & RBAC
15
10. Stage 4.6A - Admin management
18
11. Stage 4.6B - User experience
21
12. Git workflow & project chronology
22
13. Stage 5 - Testing & stabilization
26
14. The four Stage 5 defects
27
15. Final verification & capability matrix
28
16. Troubleshooting & lessons learned
29
17. Current state & Stage 6 boundary
30
18. API reference & request examples
34
Source register


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
4
1. Project overview
Evidence: README.md; Git history
The Work Tracker is a focused full-stack application for assigning work and tracking progress. Admins
manage accounts and tasks. Regular Users see their own workload, update task status, and maintain their
own profile and password.
The project is a structured rebuild of the earlier my-web-app project. The README explicitly keeps that
earlier project unchanged as a learning reference. The new repository separates frontend, backend,
database, and documentation so each layer can be understood and verified independently.
Learning objectives
- Understand how HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and React produce an interactive browser experience.
- Trace an HTTP request from a React form through Express validation and authorization to PostgreSQL.
- Distinguish temporary component state from persisted database records.
- Enforce identity, roles, ownership, and business rules on the server.
- Use Git checkpoints, isolated tests, live database checks, and browser verification together.
Deliberately focused scope
The application uses simple page selection and shared React state, inline details and confirmations, and
local filtering. It does not add a routing framework, charting package, real-time transport, public registration,
email delivery, or password-reset service. The documented implementation keeps each new technology
tied to a concrete requirement.
At Stage 5 the result is a verified local application and a useful future DevOps workload. Hosting,
deployment automation, monitoring, backup operations, and scaling are not established by the completed
application work.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
5
2. Technology stack & architecture
Evidence: package manifests; backend/server.js; frontend/vite.config.js
Browser + React
Forms, navigation, feedback and role-aware views
HTTP / JSON REST API
Relative /api requests; cookie carries an opaque session ID
Node.js + Express
Authentication, authorization, validation and business rules
PostgreSQL
Users, tasks and server-side sessions
Local ports and responsibilities
Component
Local port
Role
React / Vite development
5173
Serves the frontend and proxies /api
Express API
3000
Handles requests and accesses
PostgreSQL
PostgreSQL
5432
Stores durable records and sessions
Vite preview
4173
Locally verifies the built frontend with
API proxy
The browser calls /api on its own origin. Vite forwards those requests to Express, by default at
http://127.0.0.1:3000. This local arrangement needs no additional CORS middleware. The production static
bundle does not contain a working reverse proxy; a future host must route /api separately.
Libraries at the documented checkpoint
Package manifests declare React/React DOM ^19.3.0, Vite ^8.3.0, @vitejs/plugin-react ^6.1.1, Express
^5.2.1, pg ^8.23.0, bcryptjs ^3.0.3, express-session ^1.19.0, connect-pg-simple ^10.0.0, and
express-rate-limit ^8.7.0. These are declared ranges; npm ci installs the lockfile resolutions rather than
choosing arbitrary latest versions.
Frontend source uses ES modules; backend source uses CommonJS. Node's built-in test runner provides
automated tests. Postman supports manual API inspection. Git records local history; GitHub is part of the
intended stack, but a remote publication or merge mechanism is not proven by the inspected local history.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
6
3. Project structure & data model
Evidence: backend/database/schema.sql; source tree
my-web-app-v2/
  frontend/
    src/App.jsx          shared state, session and page coordination
    src/pages/           Dashboard, Users, AdminTasks, Tasks, Profile, Login
    src/components/      forms, badges, confirmation and data states
    src/services/        HTTP service and filtering/count helpers
    test/                API service and management/personal helpers
    vite.config.js       development and preview proxy
  backend/
    server.js            middleware, routes, health and startup
    config/              database, environment, passwords, sessions, locks
    middleware/          authentication, request bodies and errors
    routes/              auth, users, tasks and profile
    database/            final schema and additive migrations
    scripts/             setup, checks, bootstrap and live verification
    test/                route, security, environment and failure tests
  docs/                  setup, API, account and stage verification guides
Entity relationships
One user can have many assigned tasks. Each task has at most one assignee and may be unassigned.
The nullable tasks.user_id foreign key references users.id. Sessions identify users through their stored
JSON payload; the sessions table has no declared user foreign key in this schema.
Table
Key fields
Rules
users
id, name, email, password_hash, active,
role, created_at, updated_at
Serial primary key; case-insensitive
unique email; admin/user role; legacy
password hash may be null
tasks
id, title, description, status, priority,
user_id, created_at, updated_at
Status and priority checks; optional user
foreign key
sessions
sid, sess, expire
Opaque ID primary key; JSON session
data; expiry index
The foreign key uses ON DELETE SET NULL to preserve tasks if users are deleted externally. The
application API is stricter: it blocks deletion while a user has assigned tasks, including completed work.
Database constraints and application business rules therefore complement each other.
Timestamps are stored without time zone. API mutations explicitly update updated_at; external SQL does
not trigger an automatic refresh. Keep local application/database timezone assumptions consistent until a
deliberate migration addresses them.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
7
4. Setup & reproducible local startup
Evidence: README.md; docs/database.md; docs/accounts.md
Prerequisites and repository
The README calls for Node.js 22.12+ and recommends Node 24. Stage 5 recorded Windows/PowerShell,
Node 24.21.0, and PostgreSQL 18. These are project-recorded requirements and environment details, not
a new recommendation about the latest releases.
Start from the existing checkout, or clone your own repository URL into a new directory. The exact original
clone URL and shell commands were not preserved in the inspected evidence. For a new empty repository,
git init establishes history; do not run project-creation scaffolding over this existing app.
New database only
Create my_web_app_v2 once using an authorized PostgreSQL administrator. Enter the password at the
prompt. Do not recreate an existing database.
createdb -U postgres my_web_app_v2
In backend, copy .env.example to .env only if the private file is absent. Configure DB_HOST, DB_PORT,
DB_NAME, DB_USER, DB_PASSWORD, and PORT. Set a privately generated SESSION_SECRET of at
least 32 characters and private BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_NAME, BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_EMAIL, and
BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_PASSWORD for first-Admin setup. Never paste real values into this document.
For an empty database, run the following from backend after configuration:
npm ci
npm run db:init
npm run admin:bootstrap
npm run db:check
npm start
Existing Stage 4 database
Use additive migrations to preserve records and sequences. db:init creates missing tables; it does not
upgrade existing definitions.
cd backend
npm ci
npm run db:migrate:accounts
npm run db:migrate:management
npm run admin:bootstrap
npm run db:check
npm start
Bootstrap is safe to repeat: it does not reset passwords or duplicate the first active Admin. Remove its
private password input afterward if no longer needed. Existing legacy users remain separate from newly
bootstrapped accounts.
Frontend in another terminal
cd frontend
npm ci
npm run dev


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
8
Open http://localhost:5173. Keep both application servers and PostgreSQL running. If the backend port
changes, set API_PROXY_TARGET in the frontend's private environment configuration and restart Vite.
Never expose database settings through VITE_ variables or frontend code.
Verification commands
Run npm test separately in backend and frontend. Run npm run build in frontend; npm run preview then
serves the production build locally on 4173. GET http://localhost:3000/api/health confirms a successful
database query. db:check does not certify every schema column, and health does not certify
application-table structure.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
9
5. Stage 1 - Frontend foundations
Evidence: f622594; 12567bd; 2e0c062; 637bb26
The first browser foundation used an HTML page, a stylesheet, and a small JavaScript file. Commit
12567bd corrected the stylesheet filename from stylesc.ss to styles.css. This is a useful early example of
checking asset paths before assuming the styling logic is wrong.
The React foundation introduced Vite, main.jsx, App.jsx, and useState. Its initial Test React button changed
a message in component state, proving that an event could update the rendered page without a full reload.
The Work Tracker frontend then added Dashboard, Users, and Tasks pages; reusable UserForm and
TaskForm components; status badges; styling; and mock records. This created a visible workflow before
connecting it to a server. Mock data was a development stepping stone, not persistence.
Core code concepts
Props pass data and callbacks into components. State stores the current UI values and selected page. A
controlled form keeps its inputs in state, validates them, and calls an action when submitted. Reused forms
and badges keep behavior consistent across views.
The current App coordinates the account, shared records, and page selection. Later stages added
loading/error states and authenticated views to this foundation rather than introducing an unrelated UI
framework.
Learning checkpoint
Explain which values disappear on refresh when they exist only in React state. Identify the event handler
that changes a task and trace the callback to shared state. Confirm that a visual change alone does not
demonstrate a database write.
The early commits prove the implementation milestones, but no separate comprehensive Stage 1 test
report is available. Later Stage 5 browser evidence verifies the final combined application, not every
intermediate historical screen.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
10
6. Stage 2 - Backend & REST API
Evidence: 3a2b8fb; e48322b; backend/server.js; docs/api.md
The initial Express backend exposed GET /api/health on port 3000 and returned JSON showing that the
backend was running. It established a process outside the browser and a URL that could be checked
independently of the React UI.
The fuller user/task routes, environment validation, safe errors, and API tests arrived with the full-stack
integration commit e48322b. The repository does not show a separate earlier commit containing the entire
mature REST API. This manual groups these concepts under Stage 2 while preserving that historical
distinction.
Request lifecycle
Express parses JSON with a 100 KB limit. Health is handled independently of session lookup. Other API
requests receive no-store cache behavior, then session middleware, write-request verification, account
loading, route-specific access checks, and route logic. Unknown routes return safe 404 JSON; final error
middleware handles failures.
Route code validates body shape, strings, IDs, enumerations, and references. Parameterized queries
separate submitted values from SQL text. Expected conflicts return meaningful status codes instead of
exposing database errors or stack traces.
REST conventions used here
GET reads. POST creates or performs login/logout actions. PUT submits complete editable fields. PATCH
changes a narrow field such as task status or account active state. DELETE removes a resource subject to
safeguards. A task PUT applies defaults to omitted fields, so clients should send the complete form.
Testing from the outside
Postman can call the API without React, making it possible to isolate backend behavior. For authenticated
writes, retain the login cookie, use JSON where required, and send X-Requested-With: WorkTracker. Test
both success and rejection paths: malformed input, duplicate email, missing records, unauthorized roles,
and unowned tasks.
Node tests import the application without starting the normal server, use an ephemeral port, and mostly
substitute database queries and session storage. This makes failures repeatable, but those tests cannot
alone prove the real database schema or persistence.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
11
7. Stage 3 - PostgreSQL integration
Evidence: f825961; docs/database.md; backend/config/database.js
The PostgreSQL foundation introduced pg, a database configuration module, schema SQL, and a health
check that queried the database. The later integration work strengthened environment validation,
initialization, timeouts, constraints, and connectivity checks.
The browser never connects to PostgreSQL. Express owns a shared pg.Pool and uses it to execute
queries. A pool reuses connections; pool.query borrows and returns one automatically. Successful writes
are committed before the API responds, so a later GET or browser refresh reads saved records.
Transactions and migrations
Schema initialization runs in a transaction and creates missing tables without resetting data. Account and
management migrations are separate additive upgrades. A transaction commits all its changes together or
rolls them back, preventing a partly upgraded account schema or partly applied account-management
operation.
Database constraints enforce primary keys, unique email, valid task status/priority, and assignment
references. Application rules add requirements such as preventing inactive assignments and preserving an
active usable Admin.
Diagnose one layer at a time
First verify the PostgreSQL service, host, port, database, and role. Then run db:check and inspect health. A
28P01 code means authentication failed; check private configuration and shell overrides. Do not disable
authentication or reset the database as a troubleshooting shortcut.
Connections time out after five seconds and SQL statements after ten seconds. Idle pool errors are
handled. A database outage should produce safe errors while Express remains available to answer
requests that do not require a successful database lookup.
Persistence checkpoint
Create uniquely named temporary records through the API, retrieve them, reload the UI, and compare the
database independently. Delete only those records afterward. Do not reset sequences: gaps after legitimate
testing are normal.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
12
8. Stage 4 - Full-stack integration
Evidence: e48322b; frontend/src/services/api.js; README.md
Commit e48322b removed mockData.js and connected the Work Tracker to real API records. The frontend
API service centralizes fetch calls, JSON handling, readable errors, record-shape checks, cancellation, and
timeouts. Components deal with records and user feedback rather than repeating transport logic.
Example: saving a task
1. A form collects a title, description, priority, status, and optional assignee.
2. The service sends a JSON request to /api through Vite's proxy.
3. Express verifies the account and permission, validates the fields, and writes PostgreSQL.
4. The API returns the saved record with ID and timestamps.
5. React updates shared state only after success; the dashboard and list reflect the saved record.
6. Refresh reloads the same persisted record from the API.
Loading and failure behavior
Initial failures show a readable error and Retry. Submitted forms preserve input when a request fails and
disable pending actions. A 15-second frontend timeout bounds waiting. The timeout message tells the user
to reload and check whether a write completed before retrying, because an interrupted response does not
prove that the database write failed.
The service avoids showing raw HTML from proxy errors. It validates returned records before components
consume them, and treats unexpected JSON or data shapes as readable failures. Cancelled page loads
are handled without unnecessary UI changes.
Integration checkpoint
Verify an Admin-created task in the database, refresh the UI, update its status from its assigned account,
and confirm the Admin sees the result. Stop and restart the backend during a controlled local check; Retry
should recover while preserving saved state. Stage 5 contains the recorded evidence for the final
implementation.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
13
9. Stage 4.5 - Authentication & RBAC
Evidence: docs/accounts.md at 8dea970
Admins manage accounts and all tasks. Users see only their assigned tasks, update their status, and edit
their own name/email and password. There is no public registration. See Regular User experience for
self-service validation and password-change session revocation.
Upgrade an existing Stage 4 database
From backend/, install the locked dependencies with npm ci, then run npm run
db:migrate:accounts. This transactional migration adds password_hash, role, a case-insensitive
email index, and the sessions table. It preserves all existing users, tasks, assignments, and sequences. A
conflicting legacy email causes rollback rather than automatic merging or deletion.
Existing users become role user with a null password hash and cannot log in. The Admin list labels these
accounts "login not enabled". To activate one deliberately, set LEGACY_ACCOUNT_EMAIL and
LEGACY_ACCOUNT_PASSWORD in the ignored local .env, run npm run account:activate, then
remove those temporary settings. The script only enables a legacy User without a password; it cannot
overwrite an existing password or grant an Admin role. Assigned tasks remain attached to the same user
ID. This does not change the separate active/inactive status; an inactive account must also be reactivated
by an Admin.
For an empty future database, npm run db:init creates the final schema directly. Do not use schema
initialization as a substitute for upgrading existing tables.
Run npm run db:migrate:management afterward for account status. See Admin management for the
new account safeguards and session revocation.
First Admin
Set these values privately in backend/.env, never .env.example:
- SESSION_SECRET: a cryptographically random value of at least 32 characters.
- BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_NAME: the first Admin's name.
- BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_EMAIL: an email not already used by a legacy record.
- BOOTSTRAP_ADMIN_PASSWORD: your private initial account password.
Generate a session secret without displaying it using Node's crypto.randomBytes and write it directly
into the ignored local environment file. Keep this secret stable across backend restarts; changing it
invalidates existing login cookies. It is unrelated to DB_PASSWORD. Do not use the example placeholder.
Run npm run admin:bootstrap. The script hashes the password, locks against concurrent bootstrap
attempts, and creates the first Admin only if no active Admin exists. Repeating it does not reset passwords
or create duplicates. Remove the bootstrap password from .env after setup if you no longer need the input.
Passwords must contain at least 12 characters and no more than 72 UTF-8 bytes. The byte limit prevents
bcrypt's silent truncation. Passwords are not trimmed. Normal account creation requires name, email, initial
password, and role (defaults to user). Deliver initial credentials privately; the application sends no email.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
14
Sessions and authorization
express-session signs an opaque cookie ID with SESSION_SECRET. connect-pg-simple stores
session data in PostgreSQL and prunes expired records. Only the user ID and cookie metadata are stored
in the session; roles and active status are re-read from users on each request. Passwords use bcryptjs with
cost 12 and random salts. Neither plaintext passwords nor password hashes are returned by any API.
Cookies use HttpOnly, SameSite=Lax, and an eight-hour lifetime. Local HTTP works in development.
NODE_ENV=production requires HTTPS cookies; any future reverse proxy trust configuration must match
the actual deployment. This stage adds no deployment infrastructure. Do not run the real server with
NODE_ENV=test, which is reserved for the isolated tests' in-memory session store.
Login regenerates the session ID. Logout deletes the server-side session and clears the cookie. On refresh,
React calls /api/auth/me to restore the account. An expired session returns the UI to login; passwords
and tokens are not placed in localStorage. Authenticated API responses use Cache-Control:
no-store.
All state-changing API calls require X-Requested-With: WorkTracker. Combined with JSON
requests, SameSite cookies, no cross-origin CORS permission, and rejection of Sec-Fetch-Site:
cross-site, this prevents cross-site forms/scripts from using the session to perform writes. The frontend
service adds the header automatically; Postman callers must add it and preserve the login cookie.
Login is limited to 20 attempts per IP per 15 minutes. This simple limiter lives in the Node process; it resets
on restart and is not shared across future replicas.
Authentication identifies the account. Express role checks reject Admin actions from Users. Task lists and
status-update SQL include ownership restrictions; supplying another userId or role in the request cannot
change those restrictions. React hides unavailable pages for usability, not as a security boundary.
Verification
Run npm test in backend and frontend, then npm run build in frontend. Backend tests retain the
original API validation cases and add session, role, ownership, invalid-cookie, request-verification, and
rate-limit tests.
Browser check: sign in as Admin, create a User, assign a task, and log out. Sign in as that User, verify only
assigned work is visible, change status, refresh, check Profile, and log out. Sign back in as Admin to
confirm the persisted status. Also call protected endpoints manually with no cookie and with a User cookie;
expect 401 and 403 respectively. A User updating an unowned or missing task gets 403 without revealing
whether another user's task exists.
Keep the Stage 4 Git checkpoint unchanged. Rolling code back does not reverse the additive database
migration; preserve account data and make any rollback decision explicitly rather than dropping columns or
tables.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
15
10. Stage 4.6A - Admin management
Evidence: docs/admin-management.md at 8dea970
Upgrade and startup
On the existing feature branch, from backend/, run:
npm run db:migrate:accounts
npm run db:migrate:management
npm run db:check
npm start
For an empty database, db:init includes the final schema. The management migration adds
users.active BOOLEAN NOT NULL DEFAULT true and ensures updated_at exists. It is
transactional and repeatable, with a five-second lock timeout. It does not reset data, recreate tables, or
reset sequences. Existing account status starts active; legacy records without a password still cannot sign
in. The account migration and management migration must both run before bootstrap on older databases.
User management
Admins create accounts with name, email, initial password, and admin/user role. List cards show role,
active status, creation date, and whether legacy login is enabled. View loads current details from the API,
including updated date and counts of assigned tasks by status. Edit changes only name, email, and role; no
password field is shown or accepted in this endpoint. Email uniqueness is case-insensitive.
Deactivate preserves all assignments, rejects new logins with the usual generic login error, and deletes
stored sessions. Every authenticated request rereads account status, so revoked access cannot continue.
React returns to sign-in on the next 401. Reactivation allows a fresh login; it does not restore old cookies.
Legacy login enablement and active/inactive status are separate concepts.
Deletion requires explicit confirmation and is blocked with 409 while any tasks, including completed tasks,
are assigned. Reassign or delete those tasks first. No API operation cascades task deletion. The existing
foreign key remains ON DELETE SET NULL for external database operations; API safeguards are stricter.
An Admin cannot delete, deactivate, or demote their current account. At least one active Admin with a
password must remain. A legacy record without login cannot be promoted until its login is deliberately
enabled. Role changes revoke the target's sessions. The acting Admin is rechecked within management
transactions. Account changes and assignment writes share a short users-table lock, making concurrent
safeguards understandable for this small local application. This favors correctness over high write
throughput; revisit lock granularity only when workload requires it.
Task management
Admins create, view, edit, and delete tasks. Create and Edit support title, description, priority, status, and
optional assignment. View includes full description, assignment, and created/updated dates. Delete
requires explicit confirmation.
A new assignment cannot target an inactive account. Editing other fields may retain an existing inactive
assignment so historical work remains manageable; the select labels that option explicitly. Unassignment
and reassignment are allowed. On the next API request the former assignee cannot read/update the task
and the new assignee can. Open tabs refresh to see changes from another session; this stage adds no
polling or real-time transport. User status updates keep their atomic ownership restriction.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
16
UI and dashboard
Inline detail sections, reused edit forms, and inline delete confirmations avoid a new router or modal
focus-management system. Saves update shared React state only after API success. Errors preserve form
values and deletion targets; pending actions are disabled. Switching pages cancels the current edit.
Search/filter state resets when leaving a management page. Browser refresh reloads persisted API data.
Users support name/email search, role/status filters, and name/newest sorting. Tasks support title search,
status/priority/assignee filters (including unassigned), and newest/title/highest-priority sorting. Filters
combine, run locally on the API-returned arrays, and do not change database records or dashboard totals.
Dashboard cards show total, active, and inactive users; Open, In Progress, Completed, and unassigned
tasks; and task counts by priority. Active includes legacy assignment records marked active, even if login is
not enabled. Priority counts include completed work. No charting dependency was added. Regular User
pages retain their existing scope.
Manual verification
1. Sign in as Admin; refresh and verify session restoration and dashboard totals.
2. Create two temporary Users with unique test emails. View details, edit name/email, exercise
search/filter/sort, and try a duplicate email (expect preserved input).
3. Deactivate one User; login must fail. An already signed-in session must lose access on its next request.
Reactivate, then sign in again with the same password.
4. Create an assigned task, view its details, edit title/description/priority/status, and refresh. Verify the User
can update only their own task and view Profile.
5. Reassign to the second User. Refresh both accounts: only the new assignee sees it.
6. Try deleting an assigned User: expect 409 and an explanatory message. Cancel a task deletion first,
then confirm deletion of the temporary task. Delete only the temporary Users afterward and verify
dashboard counts return to baseline.
7. Call management routes with no cookie (401) and a User cookie (403). Try self
deletion/deactivation/demotion as Admin (409), invalid IDs/roles/statuses (400), missing records (404), and
inactive assignments (400).
8. Check console, failure feedback/retry, small-screen layout, and persistence.
Run npm test in each app and npm run build in frontend. Automated HTTP tests use mocked
PostgreSQL queries; actual database/browser checks remain necessary. No real credentials belong in
fixtures, documentation, examples, or screenshots. Verification records must be cleaned up without
resetting sequences.
Stage verification - 2026-09-29
Verified on feature/admin-management, based on a987d78, with no commit or merge. Backend: 42
tests passed. Frontend: 13 tests passed; production build passed. JavaScript syntax and Git whitespace
checks passed. Backend production dependencies and the full frontend dependency audit both reported
zero vulnerabilities.
Live PostgreSQL/API and browser checks covered account CRUD, blocked deletion, inactive login and
session revocation, Admin self-protection, task CRUD, ownership after reassignment, filters, sorting, refresh
persistence, regular User regression, and backend outage/retry recovery. Desktop and mobile layouts were
checked. Browser console checks found no application warnings/errors during normal flows.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
17
Temporary Stage46 Jane/John accounts and one verification task were deleted through the API/UI. The
database retains four existing users and two existing tasks (one Open, one Completed). The temporary
credential file was removed. No sequences were reset. Current credentials were absent from tracked/new
files; local .env remains ignored, and .env.example contains placeholders. PostgreSQL credentials were
unchanged.
Expected validation/authentication failures were observed during negative tests. Git reported only Windows
LF/CRLF conversion warnings. The first dependency audit was blocked by the sandbox; rerunning with
network permission succeeded. No Stage 4.6A feature remains incomplete; ready for manual review.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
18
11. Stage 4.6B - User experience
Evidence: docs/user-experience.md at 8dea970
Personal workload
The User navigation remains Dashboard, My Tasks, Profile, Logout. Express filters GET /api/tasks by
the session's account ID; React receives only that User's work. There is no separate /tasks/my endpoint.
The personal Dashboard shows Open, In Progress, Completed, total assigned tasks, counts by priority, and
up to three unfinished tasks ordered by priority (newest first within a priority). Priority totals include
completed work. No organization-wide statistics appear.
My Tasks supports case-insensitive title/description search, combined status and priority filters, and
newest/oldest/highest-priority/status sorting. Status sorting places Open before In Progress before
Completed. Sorting operates on a copy of API data; filters do not change dashboard counts. Filters reset on
navigation or refresh. There are separate empty-workload and no-filter-matches messages.
View Details fetches GET /api/tasks/:id under the same ownership restriction and shows full
description, priority, status, and created/updated dates. The existing PATCH /api/tasks/:id/status
updates only the status and timestamp. Users may choose Open, In Progress, or Completed; any transition
is allowed. The displayed status changes only after a successful save. If the new status no longer matches
a filter, the task leaves the list and the feedback explains why.
Users cannot create/delete tasks or change title, description, priority, or assignment. Admin task
PUT/DELETE/POST return 403 to Users. An unowned detail request returns 404; an unowned or missing
status target returns 403 without revealing existence. User status requests containing any field other than
status return 403. These rules are enforced by Express/SQL, regardless of manually supplied IDs or role
parameters. Reassignment takes effect on subsequent requests; refresh to see another session's changes.
This stage adds no polling or real-time transport.
Profile
GET /api/auth/me is reused for safe account data: ID, name, email, role, active status, created date, and
updated date. No new profile-read endpoint is needed. PUT /api/profile accepts exactly name and
email; identity comes only from the session. Extra keys (including role, active, ID, password, and hash) are
rejected. Name must be nonblank and at most 100 characters. Email must have a basic valid shape and be
at most 255 characters; both fields are trimmed and email lowercased. Case-insensitive duplicate emails
return 409. The database updates updatedAt.
After success, React refreshes the safe account/header data without unmounting the form. Failed profile
requests preserve input. Role and status remain read-only. Changing email does not verify mailbox
ownership or send email. Use the new email for the next login; password and active sessions otherwise
remain unchanged.
Change password, not password reset
PUT /api/profile/password accepts exactly currentPassword, newPassword, and
confirmPassword. It requires an authenticated active account, verifies the current bcrypt hash, validates
matching confirmation, and uses the existing bcryptjs cost-12 hashing helper. Policy remains at least 12
characters and no more than 72 UTF-8 bytes. Passwords are not trimmed; the new password must differ
from the current password. Wrong current passwords, malformed values, policy failures, and confirmation
mismatch return safe 400 errors. Attempts are limited to 10 per account per 15 minutes using the existing
rate-limit package; this local in-process limit resets on restart.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
19
The new hash, updated timestamp, and deletion of all PostgreSQL sessions for the account commit
together in the existing management transaction. The request's session is destroyed and its cookie cleared.
React clears account/workload state and shows 'Your password has been changed. Please sign in again.'
Only the new password works. The password-change form clears password inputs after a submitted
request; passwords are never stored in URLs, localStorage, or sessionStorage, or returned/logged by the
API.
Login rechecks the credential after saving its session. FOR SHARE waits for an in-flight password
transaction, preventing an old-password login racing the change from leaving a surviving session.
Password changes are serialized with existing account management so two simultaneous changes cannot
verify the same outdated hash.
The profile APIs act only on the authenticated account (including an Admin calling them directly); no Admin
profile navigation or management redesign was added. All writes retain the request-verification header,
HttpOnly/SameSite cookie behavior, active-account checks, parameterized SQL, and safe JSON errors.
Database and startup
No schema, migrations, dependencies, or environment settings were added. Existing
users/password_hash/updated_at and sessions tables suffice. Use the existing README startup
commands after the Stage 4.6A migrations. Do not reset the database or sequences. PostgreSQL,
bootstrap Admin credentials, and the session secret remain unchanged.
Manual verification
1. As Admin, create a uniquely named temporary User and three assigned tasks with different
priorities/statuses. Keep unrelated tasks assigned to another account.
2. Sign in as that User. Verify own dashboard counts and absence of Admin navigation.
3. Search by title/description, combine filters, exercise all sorts, and inspect details. Change own task
status; refresh and verify persisted status/counts.
4. View Profile. Try a duplicate email, then save a new name/email. Check the header, profile timestamps,
refresh persistence, and new email login.
5. Establish a second session for the temporary account. Try a wrong current password, weak/overlong
new password, and confirmation mismatch. Successful change must sign out, reject the old password and
copied old cookie, and accept the new password.
6. As Admin, verify saved profile/status changes; exercise CRUD, deactivation, reactivation, reassignment,
safe deletion, and existing Admin safeguards.
7. Call APIs directly as User: another task detail must return 404; another task's status and Admin CRUD
must return 403; profile role/active/ID fields must return 400. Unauthenticated profile requests return 401
and inactive accounts stay blocked.
8. Check desktop/mobile layout, empty tasks and empty filters, preserved input on failures, backend
outage/retry, refresh, and browser console.
9. Delete only the temporary tasks and User. Keep legitimate data and sequences.
Run npm test in backend and frontend, plus npm run build in frontend. Unit HTTP tests mock SQL
(and adapt session deletion to their MemoryStore); live PostgreSQL verification is needed to prove actual
cross-session revocation. No additional test framework is required.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
20
Verification - 2026-09-29
Branch: feature/user-experience, HEAD 1295fd4; no commit, branch switch, or merge. 52 backend
tests and 19 frontend tests passed. Existing Admin tests remain intact. Production build, JavaScript syntax,
and Git whitespace checks passed. Backend production and full frontend dependency audits reported zero
vulnerabilities. No dependencies or schema changes were introduced.
Browser verification passed for personal counts, task search/filter/sort/details, status persistence, safe
profile fields, duplicate email feedback, successful name/email editing, wrong-current-password rejection,
password change with required re-login, old-password failure, and new-password success. A separate
pre-change session was rejected against real PostgreSQL. API bypass checks rejected unowned tasks,
Admin CRUD, privileged profile fields, and forbidden task fields. Admin views reflected the User changes;
management regression and inactive-account checks passed. Desktop/mobile layout, empty workload, form
failure/input retention, backend outage/retry recovery, and normal console checks passed. Expected
negative requests and intentional outage failures were observed; no normal-flow application console errors
were found.
Created one temporary Stage46B User and three High/Medium/Low tasks through Admin management.
Renamed the temporary profile and changed only its password. Deleted all three tasks and the temporary
User through Admin management after verification. The database retains three legitimate users and two
legitimate tasks. The temporary credential file was removed and sequences were not reset. The permanent
Admin and PostgreSQL credentials were unchanged. Local .env remains ignored/untracked, examples
contain placeholders, and current-secret scanning of tracked/new files found zero matches.
An initial test fixture generated a different hash on every mock read; it was corrected to model a stable
stored hash for the new login recheck. All tests then passed. Git reports Windows LF/CRLF conversion
notices only. No remaining Stage 4.6B blockers were identified. Ready for manual review; Stage 5 was not
started.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
21
12. Git workflow & project chronology
Evidence: local Git history and branches inspected 30 September 2026
The inspected checkout is on main at 8dea970. Local branches also include feature/admin-management,
feature/user-experience, and testing/stage-5-stabilization. The visible history is linear; it does not prove
whether integration used a fast-forward, another local workflow, or a hosted pull request.
Date
Commit
Milestone
Sep 11
c22e3e0
Initialize project foundation
Sep 11
f622594
Browser frontend foundation
Sep 11
12567bd
Correct stylesheet filename
Sep 11
2e0c062
React frontend foundation
Sep 11
3a2b8fb
Express backend foundation
Sep 11
f825961
PostgreSQL connection
Sep 14
637bb26
Work Tracker frontend with mock data
Sep 28
e48322b
Complete full-stack integration
Sep 29
a987d78
Authentication and role-based access
Sep 29
1295fd4
Admin user and task management
Sep 29
2198120
Regular User experience
Sep 30
8dea970
Stabilization and regression testing
Repeatable working discipline
Inspect status and the diff before editing. Work on a focused branch, preserve unrelated changes, run
checks appropriate to the change, review the result, then commit and integrate deliberately. The commands
below are a suggested future workflow, not a transcript of the original build:
git status --short
git switch -c codex/descriptive-change
git diff
git diff --check
# Run relevant package tests and frontend build.
# Stage only the reviewed files, then commit.
git log --oneline -12
Keep .env ignored and secrets out of commits. A code rollback does not reverse a database migration;
coordinate schema compatibility and preserve data. Do not rewrite historical commits or drop tables merely
to return to an earlier UI checkpoint.
Earlier stage documents identify their starting HEAD and say the working changes were not yet committed.
Those are valid snapshots of the testing sessions. The table above records the later completed commits
and resolves the apparent conflict with the current main branch.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
22
13. Stage 5 - Testing & stabilization
Evidence: docs/stage-5-testing.md at 8dea970
Verification completed September 30, 2026. Stage 5 is complete and ready for review. The application is
suitable as the baseline workload for the next learning stage; this is not a claim of infrastructure or
operational production readiness.
Scope and environment
- Branch: testing/stage-5-stabilization; starting HEAD: 2198120.
- Working tree was clean at the initial inspection. Interruptions were resumed without discarding changes.
- Windows / PowerShell, Node.js 24.21.0, PostgreSQL 18, existing my_web_app_v2 database.
- Existing React/Vite frontend on 127.0.0.1:5173, Express backend on port 3000.
- Browser tests used the Codex in-app Chromium browser. Viewports: 1280x900, 768x900, 390x844.
- Feature scope remained frozen. No dependencies, schema changes, credentials, branches, commits,
merges, database resets, sequence resets, or DevOps tooling were introduced.
- Existing source, routes, middleware, schema/migrations, configuration, tests, and documentation were
reviewed. The four runtime fixes below are intentionally small.
Results and reproducible checks
Check
Initial baseline
Final result
Backend npm test
52 passing
56 passing, 0 failed/skipped
Frontend npm test
19 passing
20 passing, 0 failed/skipped
Frontend npm run build
Previously working
Passed; 32 modules transformed
Backend and frontend npm audit
--json
Not repeated as a baseline
Both: 0 known vulnerabilities
Backend npm run db:check
Previously verified
Passed against the existing database
JavaScript syntax and Git whitespace
Reviewed
Passed
Live API verification
Separate from unit-test counts
89 checked requests passed, plus
cleanup
Real-record preservation
3 users, 2 tasks
3 users, 2 tasks; unchanged
comparison passed
Run tests/build from each package directory with its existing npm scripts. On this Windows machine the
npm PowerShell launcher was unreliable; the installed npm CLI was invoked through Node without
changing package definitions.
The opt-in backend/scripts/verify-stage5.cjs runs against a running local backend:
cd backend
node --env-file=.env scripts/verify-stage5.cjs


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
23
It reads the local bootstrap Admin credential, generates random disposable account passwords in memory,
creates uniquely named test records, checks API responses and PostgreSQL independently, then deletes
its own tasks/users and logs out its sessions. It compares all pre-existing user/task rows before and after
using a digest without displaying hashes or credentials. It is deliberately outside node --test: normal
automated tests do not mutate the local database. Do not run the live verifier concurrently with someone
editing legitimate application data. An interrupted live run can require cleanup of its exact disposable
records; do not delete unrelated records.
CRUD and authorization matrix
Operation
Admin
Regular User
Unauthenticated
Create/list/read/edit users
Allowed, validated
403
401
Activate/deactivate/delete
users
Allowed subject to
safeguards
403
401
Create/edit/reassign/delete
tasks
Allowed, validated
403
401
List tasks
All tasks
Assigned tasks only; forged
query filters ignored
401
Read task detail
Allowed
Own task allowed; another
task returns 404
401
Update task status
Allowed
Own status only;
unowned/forbidden fields
return 403
401
Read own profile through
/api/auth/me
Own safe account
Own safe account
{ "user": null }
Edit own profile / password
Authenticated API allowed
Allowed with validation
401
Change role/active state
through self-service profile
Rejected
Rejected
401
Admin User CREATE/READ/UPDATE/DELETE and Task CREATE/READ/UPDATE/DELETE passed both
API and browser verification. Assigned users cannot be deleted until work is reassigned/deleted. Self
deletion, deactivation, and demotion are blocked. Last-usable-Admin protection and legacy-account
promotion safeguards remain covered by automated tests; no permanent Admin was altered.
Direct API attempts covered listing/retrieving/managing other users, arbitrary task access, task
creation/deletion/reassignment, privileged status payloads, and self-service privilege changes. Role and
ownership decisions are made by Express/SQL, not by the hidden browser controls.
Authentication, sessions, passwords, and negative inputs
- Valid/invalid/malformed login, inactive login, session restoration, logout, copied invalid cookies, and role
re-reading passed. Cookies retain HttpOnly and SameSite=Lax; Secure is enabled by the existing
production configuration (local HTTP naturally does not use a Secure cookie).
- Deactivation revokes access; reactivation does not revive the old session. Browser access after
deactivation returns to Sign In on the next protected request.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
24
- Password change validates the current password, rejects incorrect/mismatched/short/over-72-byte values,
stores a bcrypt hash, revokes multiple sessions, rejects the old password, and permits the new password.
No permanent account password was changed.
- Validation covered blank/whitespace values, wrong types/arrays/objects, malformed email, duplicate
email, excessive lengths, invalid/nonexistent IDs, unsupported role/status/priority, inactive or nonexistent
assignees, forbidden fields, malformed JSON, oversized bodies, and query-filter bypasses.
- Hostile-looking SQL/HTML text stayed ordinary data. Browser rendering displayed the literal text; no script
ran. Existing query parameterization and React escaping remained intact.
- API responses were checked for password/hash/secret leakage and safe error handling. No plaintext
passwords, hashes, session secret, database password, stack traces, or SQL details were returned. Safe
account fields and the required signed session cookie remain part of the intended contract.
Browser workflows and persisted state
Admin browser workflow passed: login -> dashboard -> create/view/edit user -> deactivate/reactivate ->
create/view/edit task -> assign/unassign/reassign -> search/filter/sort -> delete disposable task -> delete
disposable users -> logout. Admin could see the regular user's saved profile and task changes.
Regular-user browser workflow passed: login -> own dashboard/tasks -> search and empty/filter states ->
task detail -> status change -> refresh -> persisted completed task and updated dashboard -> profile edit ->
duplicate-email failure retaining input -> successful edit -> password change -> mandatory sign-in ->
old-password rejection -> new-password login -> logout/revocation.
The dashboard showed one completed assigned task for the disposable user after refresh. Admin counts
changed with mutations and returned after cleanup to 3 users, 0 open tasks, 1 in-progress task, 1
completed task, 0 unassigned tasks, and priority totals High 1 / Medium 1 / Low 0.
Pending sign-in/password controls were disabled; success and error feedback appeared. Changing a status
that no longer matched the selected filter removed the card and explained why. Detail status updated too.
Profile updates changed the header without losing success feedback. Browser refresh restored the
PostgreSQL-backed session and saved records. Independent SQL confirmed the completed task,
reassignment, edited profile, inactive state, and sensible created/updated timestamps.
Failure/recovery and responsive review
- Backend unavailable: the open page remained usable and showed a readable connection error. A
controlled backend stop followed by page refresh showed the service-unavailable message and Retry
loading. After restarting the backend, Retry restored the same user session and persisted workload. No
manual database/session reset was needed.
- Database unavailable: the isolated refused-connection test returned safe 503/500 JSON and no
authenticated session. The actual database was never stopped, and its check passed afterward.
- Invalid/revoked session: deactivating the disposable account forced Sign In on its next request.
- Desktop/tablet/mobile: forms, cards, profile details, and action buttons remained usable. Measured page
scroll width matched client width. Mobile navigation intentionally scrolls horizontally inside its own container.
Password controls and deletion confirmations remained reachable. No redesign or CSS change was
necessary; the viewport override was reset after testing.
- Normal workflows showed no uncaught application exceptions or React warnings. The browser's available
warn/error log capture returned an empty list. Deliberate duplicate-email, wrong-password,
revoked-session, and outage requests were expected failures, not normal-workflow regressions.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
25
Secrets, cleanup, and repository review
- backend/.env remains ignored and untracked; all example secrets remain placeholders, including
DB_PASSWORD=your_local_postgres_password.
- Exact-value scanning of tracked and new non-ignored files found no working PostgreSQL password,
bootstrap Admin password, or session secret. Generated frontend assets were checked separately.
- No test credential file was created. Disposable passwords existed only in process/browser-test memory;
browser variables were cleared. No environment file or permanent credential was changed.
- The live verifier removed its two temporary users and two tasks. Browser testing removed Stage5
Browser Work, Stage5 Edited User, and Stage5 Profile Updated (the latter began as Stage5
Resume User after the interrupted browser's in-memory password was lost).
- Final database count: 3 users and 2 tasks. A complete-row digest comparison confirmed the legitimate
records were unchanged. No sequence was reset. Browser finished signed out.
- Runtime changes are limited to the four fixes above. Test support and this document account for the other
changes. No package/lockfile, schema, product-page, or unrelated change was made.
Non-issues and remaining limitations
- Development StrictMode can cancel/restart initial loads; this is expected. The cancellation authentication
side effect was the actual defect and has its own regression test.
- Server processes and browser handles did not survive every interrupted tool session. Restarting them
restored the app; that tool-lifecycle behavior was not an application defect.
- Git reports Windows LF-to-CRLF conversion notices; whitespace checks pass. No application build
warning or dependency vulnerability remained.
- This is local functional/security-boundary verification, not a penetration test, load/stress test,
cross-browser certification, or production deployment review. Automated route tests mostly use query/store
doubles; the separate real-PostgreSQL checks provide persistence evidence.
- A complete browser network HAR and duplicate-request trace were not available through the browser tool.
Successful UI results, direct API checks, and console inspection were verified; expected negative requests
are documented. No exhaustive network-trace claim is made.
- HTTPS/proxy deployment behavior, distributed rate limiting, operations, scaling, backups, and
infrastructure resilience remain future-stage work. The accepted historical credential issue was not revisited
and Git history was not rewritten.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
26
14. The four Stage 5 defects
Evidence: docs/stage-5-testing.md; changes in 8dea970
Each regression was observed failing before its fix and passing afterward. These are narrowly scoped
behavioral fixes, with no schema or dependency change.
1. The example session secret was accepted
The validator rejected a differently spelled placeholder but allowed the actual example value. A user could
therefore believe a copied example was valid private configuration. The fix rejects both spellings while
preserving the minimum length requirement. The regression reads the actual example file and asserts
rejection, preventing example/configuration drift.
Files: backend/config/session.js and backend/test/environment.test.js.
2. A canceled response could expire a valid UI session
A request could be canceled while its response body was being read. If the delayed result was a 401, the
service still dispatched session-expired because cancellation was only handled later in the catch path. The
fix checks the combined abort signal after body parsing and before authentication side effects.
The regression verifies that a canceled response emits no session-expiry event while ordinary 401 behavior
remains supported. This distinguishes expected React development cancellation from a real session-state
bug.
Files: frontend/src/services/api.js and frontend/test/api.test.js.
3. A failed final login check left a saved session
Login saved a regenerated session before a final password/active-state database check. If that query failed,
the response returned 500 but the saved session survived. The fix tracks whether regeneration occurred
and destroys the new session on the error path before forwarding the failure.
The regression verifies the 500 response, absence of a new authenticated session, and rejection of a later
protected request. An already existing independent session is not accidentally counted as the failed login's
session.
Files: backend/routes/auth.js and backend/test/profile.test.js.
4. An occupied port reported successful startup
Express passed a listen error to the callback, but the callback ignored it and printed success. The fix checks
the error, logs its code, sets exit status 1, and suppresses the success message.
The regression starts a child process against an occupied port and expects EADDRINUSE, exit 1, and no
running-server message. Honest startup signals matter because later operational tooling will need to
distinguish healthy processes from failed launches.
Files: backend/server.js and backend/test/startup.test.js.
Additional failure coverage
An isolated refused database connection test checks health 503, login 500, no login cookie, safe
responses/logs, and continued unauthenticated service. It targets an unused local port without stopping the
real PostgreSQL server.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
27
15. Final verification & capability matrix
Evidence: historical Stage 5 report; current Git checkpoint
Evidence
Recorded Stage 5 result
Interpretation
Backend automated tests
56 passed; none failed/skipped
Repeatable route/config/security
regressions, mostly using doubles
Frontend automated tests
20 passed; none failed/skipped
Service and helper coverage; not full
browser automation
Production frontend build
Passed, 32 modules transformed
Build artifact generated successfully
Live API verification
89 checked requests passed, plus
cleanup
Real backend/database checks,
separate from unit tests
Dependency audits
Backend and frontend reported zero
known vulnerabilities
Audit-time result only
Data preservation
Three users and two tasks remained
unchanged
Compared legitimate rows, not just
counts
Browser review
Desktop, tablet and mobile workflows
passed
In-app Chromium evidence, not
cross-browser certification
Current application capabilities
Admins can manage users, active status, and tasks with safeguards; inspect dashboards; assign, unassign,
and reassign work; and search/filter/sort their lists. Users can view only their assigned workload, update
task status, inspect details, edit their name/email, and change their password with session revocation.
Authentication uses hashed passwords and PostgreSQL-backed sessions. Server checks enforce roles and
task ownership. The UI provides loading/retry states, preserved failed form input, confirmation before
deletion, and persisted data after refresh.
What these results do not claim
The completed work is not a penetration test, a load test, a cross-browser certification, or a production
deployment review. Historical zero-vulnerability and secret-scan results are not re-certified by generating
this PDF. Distributed rate limiting, HTTPS reverse-proxy behavior, backups, and operational resilience
remain future work.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
28
16. Troubleshooting & lessons learned
Evidence: database, account, experience and Stage 5 guides
Symptom
Likely check
Practical response
Styles absent in early frontend
Stylesheet name/path
The early stylesc.ss typo was fixed to
styles.css; inspect requested assets
Database authentication rejected
PostgreSQL 28P01; environment
overrides
Verify host/role and private .env values;
quote a password containing #
Health succeeds but application query
fails
Missing table/column or old schema
Health checks connectivity; inspect
migration state separately
Backend cannot start
EADDRINUSE
Identify the intended process/port; do
not assume startup succeeded
Browser cannot reach API
Backend process or proxy target
Start the backend, confirm target port,
restart Vite after configuration changes
Request timed out
Response may be lost after a write
Reload and inspect saved state before
submitting again
User cannot be deleted
Assigned tasks, including completed
work
Reassign or deliberately delete the
tasks first
Legacy account cannot log in
Null password hash or inactive state
Enable legacy login deliberately; active
status is a separate setting
Old session fails after password change
Intended revocation
Sign in again with the new password
PowerShell npm launcher fails
Shell launcher issue
Use the installed npm CLI through
Node, as recorded in Stage 5
Lessons that transfer to future projects
A successful UI click is not proof of persistence; verify after reload and independently in the database.
Hiding a button is not authorization; test the endpoint directly as another role. Tests with query doubles are
valuable but need live integration evidence. A failed operation must clean up security state, not merely
return an error.
Treat business-rule races as part of correctness: account updates and assignments coordinate through
short locks, password changes revoke sessions atomically, and login rechecks credentials before leaving a
usable session. These choices favor understandable correctness for the current small application.
Keep tests representative of reality. During Stage 4.6B a mock returned a freshly generated password hash
on each read; correcting it to a stable stored hash fixed the fixture, rather than weakening the production
login check.
Build verification must also preserve user data. Create uniquely labeled disposable records, remove only
those records, and compare original rows. Avoid database and sequence resets as a testing convenience.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
29
17. Current state & Stage 6 boundary
Evidence: README.md; docs/stage-5-testing.md; main at 8dea970
The source checkpoint is a complete local full-stack Work Tracker through Stage 5. The application has a
clear browser/API/database boundary, a health endpoint, environment-based configuration, repeatable
tests, and a build command. These provide concrete inputs for the next learning stage.
Stage 6 has not been started by this documentation task. The inspected records place deployment and
operational concerns in future-stage work but do not define a final Stage 6 platform or implementation plan.
No cloud account, hosting provider, container setup, pipeline, DNS change, or infrastructure deployment is
assumed here.
Suggested entry criteria for the next stage
- Preserve 8dea970 as the Stage 5 reference and make future changes reviewable.
- Agree on the deployment target and the learning goal before selecting tools.
- Plan frontend hosting and /api routing together, including HTTPS and cookie behavior.
- Separate development, testing, and deployed configuration; store real secrets privately.
- Define database persistence, migration, backup, restore, logging, and health-check expectations.
- Carry forward the existing tests and add checks for the actual deployed environment.
Study exercises
Trace a task-status change from the component to the API and SQL ownership condition. Explain why the
same User gets 404 for another task's details but 403 for its status update. Describe why a password
change revokes all sessions and why reactivation does not revive old cookies. Explain the difference
between a successful build, a successful health check, and production readiness.
Small glossary
REST API: an HTTP interface for resources and actions. RBAC: permissions based on account roles.
Ownership: permission tied to the assigned account. Session: server-side login state referenced by a
cookie. Migration: a controlled schema upgrade. Regression test: a check that a fixed defect does not
return. Transaction: changes committed or rolled back together. Proxy: a server that forwards requests to
another server.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
30
18. API reference & request examples
Evidence: docs/api.md at 8dea970
The Express API uses JSON. The default local base URL is http://localhost:3000. The backend
persists users and tasks in PostgreSQL. The React frontend calls these endpoints through its API service
and Vite's local proxy. See database setup for connection configuration and the README for local startup.
Authentication and access
Use POST /api/auth/login with an email/password JSON object and preserve the returned HttpOnly cookie.
GET /api/auth/me returns { "user": null } when signed out or a safe account when signed in. POST
/api/auth/logout destroys the session. All writes, including login/logout, require the header
X-Requested-With: WorkTracker. See Accounts setup for bootstrap, cookies, passwords, and migration.
All users endpoints and task creation/full editing/deletion require Admin access. GET tasks returns all tasks
for Admins and only assigned tasks for Users; query parameters cannot override this. PATCH task status
permits Admins or the assigned User. Missing/unowned task IDs return 403 for Users, while a missing task
returns 404 for Admins. Unauthenticated protected requests return 401; forbidden actions return 403. Login
throttling returns 429. All account responses exclude password hashes.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
31
Endpoints
Method
Path
Success
Purpose
GET
/api/health
200
Check database connectivity
GET
/api/auth/me
200
Current safe account, or null
PUT
/api/profile
200
Edit own name/email
PUT
/api/profile/password
200
Change own password and revoke sessions
GET
/api/users
200
Return users ordered by ID
POST
/api/users
201
Create an active user
GET
/api/users/:id
200
User details and task summary (Admin)
PUT
/api/users/:id
200
Edit name, email, role (Admin)
PATCH
/api/users/:id/status
200
Set active boolean (Admin)
DELETE
/api/users/:id
200
Safe user deletion (Admin)
GET
/api/tasks
200
Return tasks ordered by ID
POST
/api/tasks
201
Create an optionally assigned task
GET
/api/tasks/:id
200
Task details (Admin or owner; otherwise 404)
PUT
/api/tasks/:id
200
Replace editable task fields (Admin)
DELETE
/api/tasks/:id
200
Delete task (Admin)
PATCH
/api/tasks/:id/status
200
Change task status
POST, PUT, and PATCH require Content-Type: application/json and a JSON object. The
maximum request body size is 100 KB. Unknown fields are ignored except password, password_hash, and
active fields in Admin user edits, which are rejected. Self-profile endpoints reject every field outside their
allowlist, and User task-status requests reject every field except status. Task creation accepts a valid status
and defaults to Open.
Create a user
{ "name": "Alice Example", "email": "alice@example.com", "password": "<private initial 
password>", "role": "user" }
Name must be a nonblank string of up to 100 characters after trimming. Email must have a basic
name@domain.suffix shape and be at most 255 characters. Email is trimmed and lowercased before
saving. A database uniqueness conflict returns 409. This does not verify mailbox ownership or deliverability.
Account creation also requires a password (at least 12 characters, at most 72 UTF-8 bytes). Role is admin
or user, defaulting to user. The angle-bracketed password above is a placeholder, not a suggested
credential.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
32
User records have id, name, email, role, active, canLogin, createdAt, and updatedAt. Both
listing and creation use camelCase JSON timestamps (previously the user routes returned created_at).
Create a task
{
  "title": "Prepare documentation",
  "description": "Document the local setup steps.",
  "priority": "High",
  "userId": 1
}
Title must be a nonblank string of up to 200 characters after trimming. Description is an optional string of at
most 10000 characters, defaulting to empty; explicit null is rejected. Priority is Low, Medium, or High,
defaulting to Medium. userId is an existing user's integer ID, or null/omitted for an unassigned task. String
IDs are rejected. IDs must be between 1 and 2147483647.
Task records have id, title, description, status, priority, userId, createdAt, and
updatedAt. Creating a task returns the saved record.
Change status
Send this body to /api/tasks/1/status:
{ "status": "In Progress" }
Supported values are Open, In Progress, and Completed. Any transition between these values is
allowed. The update sets updatedAt and returns the saved task. A valid but nonexistent task ID returns
404.
Errors and health
Errors use { "error": "Human-readable message" }. Health failures also include "status":
"error". SQL details and stack traces are not sent to clients.
Status
Meaning
400
Invalid JSON, body, field, ID, or nonexistent assigned user
404
Unknown route or record not found
409
Duplicate email, blocked deletion/Admin change, or concurrent
management lock timeout
413
Request body too large
415
Unsupported content type, charset, or encoding
500
Unexpected server/database error
503
Health check cannot reach the database
Successful health responses contain status, message, database, and time. This endpoint checks
database connectivity, not the presence of application tables.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
33
Local commands and verification
From backend/, run npm start with the existing local .env configured. Do not put real passwords in
documentation or source code.
Run npm test (or node --test) from backend/. Tests use Node's built-in test runner, an ephemeral
local HTTP port, and a mocked query method. They do not load .env, connect to PostgreSQL, or prove
that the live schema matches the queries. Sessions use an isolated in-memory test store; authentication
and ownership bypass cases run alongside the original API tests.
For manual Postman checks after database configuration is resolved, use the sample bodies above, verify
successful creates appear in GET results, and verify status updates persist. Repeat with invalid fields,
duplicate emails, and missing IDs. Creation and update requests write to the configured database; use
deliberate test data.
Admin edits and deletion
PUT /api/users/:id requires { "name": "Alice Example", "email":
"alice@example.com", "role": "user" }. PATCH /api/users/:id/status requires {
"active": false } or { "active": true }. GET user details adds taskSummary: { total,
open, inProgress, completed }. Passwords are never editable through PUT. Status changes and
edits update updatedAt.
PUT /api/tasks/:id uses the same editable fields as creation, including status. It is a replacement of
editable fields: omitted description/priority/status/userId use the creation defaults, so callers should send the
complete form. Assignment must exist and be active, except that an existing inactive assignment may be
retained. Both DELETE routes return a 200 JSON { "message": "... deleted" } response.
User deletion with assigned tasks and self deletion/deactivation/demotion return 409. The last usable
Admin is protected. Deactivation and role changes revoke sessions. Full rules and manual checks are in
Admin management.
Self-service profile and password
PUT /api/profile: { "name": "My Name", "email": "me@example.com" }. Only these two
keys are accepted; the session supplies the account ID. Returns the saved safe User record. Duplicate
emails return 409, validation errors 400. GET /api/auth/me and login now include active and
updatedAt in safe account data.
PUT /api/profile/password accepts currentPassword, newPassword, confirmPassword. The
current password must match, confirmation must match, and the replacement must meet the existing
12-character/72-UTF-8-byte policy and differ from the old password. Success returns { "message":
"Your password has been changed. Please sign in again." }. All sessions for that account
are revoked, including the current one. Wrong current password/invalid fields return 400; expired/inactive
authentication returns 401; more than 10 attempts per account in 15 minutes returns 429. No
credentials/hashes are included in responses. See User experience for full behavior.
Clarifications for interpreting the reference
POST /api/auth/login and POST /api/auth/logout are also supported. Login uses email/password JSON;
both require the write-verification header. Preserve cookies between requests.
The general missing-status-target 404 applies to Admins. Users receive 403 for missing/unowned status
targets and 404 for unowned task details.
Example IDs are illustrative; choose an existing active assignee or null. Password placeholders are not
credentials.


MY WEB APP V2  /  BUILD & LEARNING DOCUMENTATION
Stages 1-5 | Source checkpoint 8dea970 | 30 September 2026
34
Source register
Evidence: repository-local evidence
Source
What it supports
README.md
Purpose, stack, startup, proxy behavior and project layout
docs/database.md
Environment, initialization, persistence and database troubleshooting
docs/accounts.md
Authentication, migrations, sessions, password policy and RBAC
docs/admin-management.md
Stage 4.6A features, safeguards and historical verification
docs/user-experience.md
Stage 4.6B features, ownership, profile/password behavior and checks
docs/stage-5-testing.md
Historical final results, four fixes, 89-request verification and limitations
docs/api.md
Routes, request bodies, validation and response contracts
backend/database/schema.sql
Tables, columns, indexes, constraints and relationships
backend/server.js; frontend/src/services/api.js
Request flow, startup behavior and frontend transport handling
frontend/vite.config.js; package manifests
Proxy settings, commands and declared dependencies
Local Git history through 8dea970
Chronology, source milestones, current branch and completed checkpoint
Compiled from the local repository on 30 September 2026. The detailed account, Admin, User, Stage 5,
and API chapters adapt the project's own guides, with editorial explanations and status clarifications. No
external sources are needed to substantiate this repository-specific build history.
The PDF is a documentation artifact, not a backup of source code or database data. Keep the repository,
lockfiles, migration scripts, and private operational backups separately. No real credentials, session IDs,
password hashes, or private environment values are included.
